# Timed Quiz Application


# Application Scope
Build a timed coding quiz with multiple-choice questions. This app will run in the browser, and will feature dynamically updated HTML and CSS powered by JavaScript code that you write. It will have a clean, polished, and responsive user interface.


# Acceptance Criteria
1. When I click the start button, then a timer starts and I am presented with a question;
2. When I answer a question, then I am presented with another question;
3. When I answer a question incorrectly, then time is subtracted from the clock;
4. When all questions are answered or the timer reaches 0, then the game is over; and
5. When the game is over, then I can save my initials and score.


# Repository
The developer performed the following steps to initiate the project.

1. Logged into developers GitHub portal
2. Created a new repository named "code-quiz" and a readme.md file
3. Enabled the repository’s web page features, which are found under the repository’s settings > pages
4. Opened Git Bash terminal entered the following commands:
>> - cd to desktop/projects
>> - git clone git@github.com:bkelley1/code-quiz.git
>> - cd code-quiz
>> - touch index.html (make index.html)
>> - touch .gitignore (make .gitignore)
>> - mkdir assets (make directory assets)
>> - cd assets (change directory to assets)
>> - mkdir images (make directory images)
>> - mkdir js (make directory js)
>> - cd js (change directory to js)
>> - touch script.js (make script.js)
>> - cd .. (change directory to assects)
>> - mkdir css (make directory css)
>> - cd css (change directory to css)
>> - touch style.css (make style.css)
>> - cd ../../ (change directory to local repository root)
>> - code . (launch VS Code)
5. Edited .gitignore to establish file extensions to be ignored, which are listed below:
>> - .DS_Store
>> - .log
>> - .lock
>> - .tmp
>> - .o
>> - .class
>> - .vsdx
>> - .psd
>> - .ai
Thumbs.db
6. Opened Git Bash terminal entered the following commands:
>> - cd to desktop/projects/code-quiz
>> - git add - A
>> - git commit -m "initial quiz application commit"
>> - git push origin develop
>> - git checkout main
>> - git merge develop
>> - git add - A
>> - git commit -m "initial quiz application commit"
>> - git push origin main
>> - git checkout -b develop


# Application & Code Repository
A working version of the application and application files (repository) are available at the following locations.

> - Deployed application: https://bkfleet1.github.io/code-quiz/
>>> [deployed application](./assets/images/introduction.png)

> - GitHub repository: https://github.com/bkfleet1/code-quiz 
>>> [GitHub repository image](./assets/images/repository.png)


# Application Structure
The application's structure consists of three components: CSS, HTML, and JS files. 

## HTML Structure
The application's HTML page (index.html) consists of the following structure.

> - head
> - body
> - header
>> - div class="header-left"
>>> - a href
>> - div class="header-right"
>>> - span id="time" (this is the quiz timer)
> - main
> introduction section (contained in main)
>> - section class="intro" id="introduction"
>>> - h1
>>> - p
>>> - button class="btn-start" id="startquiz"
> quiz section (contained in main)
>> - section class="quizItems" id="quiz"
>>> - h1 id ="question" (question text is dynamically generated by script.js)
>>> - ul id="responses"
>>>> - li ("li" is dynamically generated by script.js)
>>>>> - button ("button" and quiz response text is dynamically generated by script.js)
> score section (contained in main)
>> - section class="score" id="yourscore"
>>> - h1
>>> - div class="scorePresent"
>>>> - span id="currentScore" (quiz score dynamically generated by script.js)
>>>> - button class="btn-back" id="goBack"
>>>> - button class="btn-submit" id="submitname"
> high score section (contained in main)
>> - section class="highscore" id="highscores"
>>> - button class="btn-clear" id="clearscore"
> - script


The following graphic further illustrates the site structure.
  [timed quiz application architecture](./assets/images/quiz-design.png) 

## Javascript
The application utilizes multiple javascript files defined below.  

### Jquery
Tha application utilizes jquery 3.5.1, which is called within the html file. The jquery url is as follows:
https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.5.1.min.js

### Script.js Structure
The application's global.js contains the querySelectors used by the application. The following graphic further illustrates the global.js file content.
  [global js](./assets/images/global.png) 

### Script.js Structure
The application's javascript page (script.js) consists of the following structure.

> - variables
> - start Button & event listener
> - time timeRemaining (quiz timer)
> - hide introduction section & show quiz section
> - quiz questions
> - display quiz questions
>> - display question
>> - display question response options
> - check user question response
> - next question
> - load score
> - end quiz
> - display score section
> - backButton refresh quiz


# Developer's Notes
The acceptance criteria previously noted is addressed in the following manner.

## Requirement 1. When I click the start button, then a timer starts and I am presented with a question
Upon launch the user is presented with the introduction page illustrated below.
 [introduction](./assets/images/introduction.png)

 The introduction section includes instructions about the quiz and a START QUIZ button. Upon clicking the button the application performs the following steps
 >>> 1. hides the introduction section by changing the display: block to display: none;
 >>> 2. displays the quiz section by changing the display: none to display: block;
 >>> 3. starts the quiz timer
 >>> 4. presents the first question and response choices (buttons). The questions are dynamically populated within the h1 tag. The response choices (buttons) are dynamically created within the ul element as follows: scipt.js creates an "li" and "button" for each response choice, and the button text contains a possible answer to the question.

The image below illustrates the first question the application presents upon "click" of the START QUIZ button.
 [question 1](./assets/images/q1.png)

 ## Requirement 2. When I answer a question, then I am presented with another question
The following images illustrates the series of questions presented to the user upon selection of an answer to the question (i.e., click of a response button).
[question 1](./assets/images/q1.png)
[question 2](./assets/images/q2.png)
[question 3](./assets/images/q3.png)
[question 4](./assets/images/q4.png)
[question 5](./assets/images/q5.png)

## Requirement 3. When I answer a question incorrectly, then time is subtracted from the clock
The image below illustrates the application of a time penalty of 10 seconds applied for an incorrect answer.  
 [incorrect answer penalty](./assets/images/incorrect.png)

## Requirement 4. When all questions are answered or the timer reaches 0, then the game is over
The follwing image illustrates the end of a quiz when the user reaches 0 timeRemaining.
[end quiz due to 0 time left](./assets/images/endzero.png)

The follwing image illustrates the end of a quiz when the user successfully completes the quiz
[successfully completed quiz](./assets/images/endquiz.png)

Additionally, the application saves the user's score in localStorage as illustrated below.
[saved score](./assets/images/savescore.png)

## Requirement 5. When the game is over, then I can save my initials and score.
This requirement is was not completed due to time contraints.